docs(contributing): add CONTRIBUTING.md (#1516)
vscode-neovim/vscode-neovim: CONTRIBUTING.md

# Contributing

Thank you for your interest in contributing to the project! This project is the result of the passion and hard work of
many contributors, and we appreciate your help! To get started, please read this document to familiarize yourself with
the project.

> -   [Contributing](#contributing)

Reviewer: github autogenerates a ToC so you don't need this
![image](https://github.com/vscode-neovim/vscode-neovim/assets/1359421/2e5c6c0d-6aa7-4d0c-8e41-0d62e2b548ef)

        -   [CommandLineManager](#commandlinemanager)
        -   [HighlightManager](#highlightmanager)
        -   [ViewportManager](#viewportmanager)
        -   [CursorManager](#cursormanager)
            -   [Neovim -\> VSCode](#neovim---vscode)
            -   [VSCode -\> Neovim](#vscode---neovim)
        -   [TypingManager](#typingmanager)
        -   [DocumentChangeManager](#documentchangemanager)
        -   [BufferManager](#buffermanager)

## 🔧 Build

### Create and Install Package

How to build (and install) from source:

1. Clone the repo locally.

    ```
    git clone https://github.com/vscode-neovim/vscode-neovim
    ```

2. Install the dependencies.

    ```
    npm install
    ```

3. Build the VSIX package:

    ```
    npx vsce package -o vscode-neovim.vsix
    ```

4. From VSCode, use the `Extensions: Install from VSIX` command to install the package.

### Develop

1. Open the repo in VSCode.
2. Go to debug view and click `Run Extension` (F5).

### Run Tests

1. Open the repo in VSCode.
2. Go to debug view and click `Extension Tests` (F5).
3. To run individual tests, modify `grep: ".*"` in `src/test/suite/index.ts`.

## Design Principles

> -   **Focus on removing code**. As it is, the project is already too large and complex, full of workarounds due to

Reviewer: 💯 less is more.

used to send and receive messages to and from neovim. The library is also used to spawn neovim processes. Many functions
are exposed, listed [here](https://neovim.io/node-client/classes/NeovimClient.html). However, the library is not kept up
to date, so many API wrappers are missing. In these cases, the raw `call`, `callAtomic`, `lua`, and `command` commands
are directly used.

### Neovim UI Protocol

VSCode-Neovim is built around neovim's ui protocol [:help ui](https://neovim.io/doc/user/ui.html). This protocol allows
vscode to listen to events emitted by neovim, such as `mode_change`, `hl_attr_define`, and `win_viewport`. This API
allows neovim to externalize the _rendering_ of various components of the editor, such as the cursor, highlights,
buffers, cmdline, etc. When possible, this protocol should be used as the source of truth for the state of the editor.

However, the UI protocol [is incomplete](https://github.com/neovim/neovim/issues/9421), and there are many holes in the
API. For example, there is no way to get the type of visual mode or the current visual selection, `win_viewport` is not

> triggered on horizontal scrolling, there are no events for window splits and tabs, etc. As the nvim UI extension API is

Reviewer: is there an upstream issue for the win_viewport horiz scrolling? https://github.com/neovim/neovim/issues?q=is%3Aissue+is%3Aopen+win_viewport

Author: @justinmk WinScrolled is currently used as a workaround, but the point here is to illustrate that there are gaps

improved, these holes should be filled in, and workarounds can be removed.

### Autocommands

Another event-driven API available is [autocommands](https://neovim.io/doc/user/autocmd.html). These are events that are
triggered when certain actions happen, such as `BufEnter`, `BufWrite`, `CursorMoved`, etc. These events populate
`<afile>`, `vim.v.event`, etc. All this data is available using
[nvim_create_autocmd](<https://neovim.io/doc/user/api.html#nvim_create_autocmd()>). Sometimes, these events contain more
information than the UI protocol, and should be used instead. For example, the `ModeChanged` autocommand contains the
type of visual mode, which is not available in the UI protocol. In that case, the autocommand should forward the event
to vscode for custom handling.

### Neovim Lua API

To send commands to neovim, and to (worst-case scenario) ask it for additional information, the
[neovim lua api](https://neovim.io/doc/user/api.html) can be used. As a last resort, the
[builtin](https://neovim.io/doc/user/builtin.html) API can be used.

> Due to the number of RPC round trips required, the logic using the lua or vim APIs should be moved to a custom lua

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To avoid RPC round trips, the logic using the lua or vim APIs should be moved to a custom lua
```

function running in nvim.

## Managers

> VSCode-Neovim is structured using a manager pattern. Each manager is responsible for syncing a specific aspect of the

Reviewer: should we mention the eventbus `.on` ? https://github.com/vscode-neovim/vscode-neovim/blob/c554c065a375f2bd32346aabdb6526ece8bb4189/src/eventBus.ts#L176
